---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "k3d_cluster Resource - terraform-provider-k3d"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Cluster resource in k3d.
---

# k3d_cluster (Resource)

Cluster resource in k3d.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "k3d_cluster" "mycluster" {
  name    = "mycluster"
  servers = 1
  agents  = 2

  kube_api {
    host      = "myhost.my.domain"
    host_ip   = "127.0.0.1"
    host_port = 6445
  }

  image   = "rancher/k3s:v1.20.4-k3s1"
  network = "my-custom-net"
  token   = "superSecretToken"

  volume {
    source      = "/my/host/path"
    destination = "/path/in/node"
    node_filters = [
      "server[0]",
      "agent[*]",
    ]
  }

  port {
    host_port      = 8080
    container_port = 80
    node_filters = [
      "loadbalancer",
    ]
  }

  label {
    key   = "foo"
    value = "bar"
    node_filters = [
      "agent[1]",
    ]
  }

  env {
    key   = "bar"
    value = "baz"
    node_filters = [
      "server[0]",
    ]
  }

  registries {
    create = true
    use = [
      "k3d-myotherregistry:5000"
    ]
    config = <<EOF
mirrors:
  "my.company.registry":
    endpoint:
      - http://my.company.registry:5000
EOF
  }

  k3d {
    disable_load_balancer     = false
    disable_image_volume      = false
    disable_host_ip_injection = false
  }

  k3s {
    extra_server_args = [
      "--tls-san=my.host.domain",
    ]
    extra_agent_args = []
  }

  kubeconfig {
    update_default_kubeconfig = true
    switch_current_context    = true
  }

  runtime {
    gpu_request = "all"
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **name** (String) Cluster name.

### Optional

- **agents** (Number) Specify how many agents you want to create.
- **env** (Block List) Add environment variables to nodes. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--env))
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **image** (String) Specify k3s image that you want to use for the nodes.
- **k3d** (Block List, Max: 1) k3d runtime settings. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--k3d))
- **k3s** (Block List, Max: 1) Options passed on to k3s itself. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--k3s))
- **kube_api** (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--kube_api))
- **kubeconfig** (Block List, Max: 1) Manage the default kubeconfig (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--kubeconfig))
- **label** (Block List) Add label to node container. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--label))
- **network** (String) Join an existing network.
- **port** (Block List) Map ports from the node containers to the host. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--port))
- **registries** (Block List, Max: 1) Define how registries should be created or used. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--registries))
- **runtime** (Block List, Max: 1) Runtime (Docker) specific options (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--runtime))
- **servers** (Number) Specify how many servers you want to create.
- **token** (String, Sensitive) Specify a cluster token. By default, we generate one.
- **volume** (Block List) Mount volumes into the nodes. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--volume))

### Read-Only

- **credentials** (List of Object, Sensitive) Cluster credentials. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--credentials))

<a id="nestedblock--env"></a>
### Nested Schema for `env`

Required:

- **key** (String)

Optional:

- **node_filters** (List of String)
- **value** (String)


<a id="nestedblock--k3d"></a>
### Nested Schema for `k3d`

Optional:

- **disable_host_ip_injection** (Boolean) Disable the automatic injection of the Host IP as 'host.k3d.internal' into the containers and CoreDNS.
- **disable_image_volume** (Boolean) Disable the creation of a volume for importing images.
- **disable_load_balancer** (Boolean) Disable the creation of a LoadBalancer in front of the server nodes.


<a id="nestedblock--k3s"></a>
### Nested Schema for `k3s`

Optional:

- **extra_agent_args** (List of String) Additional args passed to the k3s agent command on agent nodes.
- **extra_server_args** (List of String) Additional args passed to the k3s server command on server nodes.


<a id="nestedblock--kube_api"></a>
### Nested Schema for `kube_api`

Optional:

- **host** (String) Important for the `server` setting in the kubeconfig.
- **host_ip** (String) Where the Kubernetes API will be listening on.
- **host_port** (Number) Specify the Kubernetes API server port exposed on the LoadBalancer.


<a id="nestedblock--kubeconfig"></a>
### Nested Schema for `kubeconfig`

Optional:

- **switch_current_context** (Boolean) Directly switch the default kubeconfig's current-context to the new cluster's context.
- **update_default_kubeconfig** (Boolean) Directly update the default kubeconfig with the new cluster's context.


<a id="nestedblock--label"></a>
### Nested Schema for `label`

Required:

- **key** (String)

Optional:

- **node_filters** (List of String)
- **value** (String)


<a id="nestedblock--port"></a>
### Nested Schema for `port`

Required:

- **container_port** (Number)

Optional:

- **host** (String)
- **host_port** (Number)
- **node_filters** (List of String)
- **protocol** (String)


<a id="nestedblock--registries"></a>
### Nested Schema for `registries`

Optional:

- **config** (String) Specify path to an extra registries.yaml file.
- **create** (Boolean) Create a k3d-managed registry and connect it to the cluster.
- **use** (List of String) Connect to one or more k3d-managed registries running locally.


<a id="nestedblock--runtime"></a>
### Nested Schema for `runtime`

Optional:

- **agents_memory** (String) Memory limit imposed on the agents nodes [From docker].
- **gpu_request** (String) GPU devices to add to the cluster node containers ('all' to pass all GPUs) [From docker].
- **servers_memory** (String) Memory limit imposed on the server nodes [From docker].


<a id="nestedblock--volume"></a>
### Nested Schema for `volume`

Required:

- **destination** (String)

Optional:

- **node_filters** (List of String)
- **source** (String)


<a id="nestedatt--credentials"></a>
### Nested Schema for `credentials`

Read-Only:

- **client_certificate** (String)
- **client_key** (String)
- **cluster_ca_certificate** (String)
- **host** (String)
- **raw** (String)


